Blog Post 1:

Let me paint you a picture: You're happily scrolling away on social media. You found a really good dog meme page when you happen to steal a quick gaze at the sidelines of the webpage and you see it: It's an advertisement for the best dog spa you could possibly want your bestest pal in the whole wide world to go to. COOL! You say to youself but also... how did they know? But they know. Trust that they know. But who's they and what do they know and how do they know? Internet Advertising uses a bunch of different techniques - we should unofficially call internet glitter because it is impossible to get rid of - such as your browsing history, emails, your IP address, and even cookies. And really that last one - coookies- is what I really wanted to talk to you about. Your cookies are small files your internet browser saves so you have an easier time when you visit your favorite sites - think of it as a save game file- but there are other kinds of cookies. There are advertising cookies normally owned by an ad company that follow you around the internet. These help gather all sorts of data points that in the end result in delievering you that pawsome dog spa ad. Does that seem awfully snoopy ? - and not in the adorable and beloved dog comic way- Absolutely! However, there are things you can do to be better in charge of what the folks like to call in the industry call "your data" ! First off, get into the habit of using a VPN, it helps hide your IP (basically your internet street address) from these cookies and add a level of anonymity to your internet adventuring. Most importantly, is to not ignore those pop under ads you see now on most websites. Those pop unders are a result of the GDPR in Europe, and more local to North America, and California specifically, the CCPA. Those pop unders or banners are there to give you a helping hand and not letting your data get taken for a walk. The best sites will give you a reject all and the worst ones might not give you an option at all other than to accept. However, the middle of the road sites will give you an option. Click on them. It will slow your adventure up a bit, but, picture it as placing your favorite order at a coffee shop: You'll get your buzz handcrafted the way you like it. This way you'll be able to opt out of a lot of things they would otherwise collect. In that menu though they will give the data they wish to collect kind of technically crucial sounding name like 'Functional Cookies' but don't worry. They aren't.  The only ones that are absolutely crucial to get the website you're on are often called 'Strictly Necessary' cookies and you won't be able to opt out of them. So long story short, you probably should take your bestest pal to that dog spa because we know they are the goodest and the bestest. But also what would be be the goodest and bestest for you would be to take the 5 extra seconds to opt out of those cookies to stop some of your data getting off leash and getting into all sorts of mischief.


Blog Post 2:

Who wouldnt want think before you click needlepointed on a pillow? Bet there's someone on Etsy who will gladly oblige should you be so inclined. If not someday that's definitely going to be in my merch store... you know when this blog takes off! The point is and it's related to my first blog post which you should read -btw. How often do you just click on something without thinking? Before clicking on anything anywhere, especially in either a direct message on social media or email, did I ask for this link? No seriously. Lines like "Come Check Out My Small Shop" and "Here's the link to my Google drive" should send you running at your top speed (miles or kilometers..We don't care or judge here!) in the other direction! This is known as phishing in the sense they are trying to reel you in to lighten your wallet in one way or another or more devastatingly steal your username and password. NBD you think its just my FB/IG/TikTok but... Yeah... It is... I know some of you are using the same username and more worryingly while your username might be different ... Some of you are definatey using the same assword for all your accounts. This is a horrible idea - because it is sort of the bad side of all for one and one for all... One account falls with your lifelong password look and all your other accounts with that password also fall. I would also say if you've read this far and... why wouldnt you writing is impeccable over here... I would recommend you going through your most important accounts and making them all wonderfully unique- or you know get a password manager! - At least if you're still like NAH! Following the instructions from the title-THINK BEFORE YOU CLICK!- is the bare minimum. It is also important to add that even if it comes from a trusted source like say your Great Great Aunt Batilda - you know the one that always sends a generous 20$ bill on your birthday- can be sus. It would be a good idea before clicking on anything that gives your Spidey-senses (Peter Tingle?) a trigger to go ahead a reach out to your friend or relative that sent you the thing to ask if they meant to send you that or if it's really obvious- you know the ones: A Royal friend who has fallen on hard times...Let them know they've been subject to some mischief and they need to change their passwords ASAHP. So the takeaway here you need to remember is: Think before you click because you never know what could be on the other side of a link... or who is on the other side of a link.
